index.md, before:

---
layout: talk
author_profile: true
classes: wide

---

<style>
/* Widen wrapper no matter which sidebar container is used */
.page__sidebar .author__avatar,
.sidebar .author__avatar,
.author__avatar {
  width: 200px !important;
  max-width: none !important;
  margin: 0 auto !important;
  display: block !important;
}

/* Enlarge the image and keep perfect circle */
.page__sidebar .author__avatar img,
.sidebar .author__avatar img,
.author__avatar img,
img[itemprop="image"].u-photo {
  width: 200px !important;
  height: auto !important;
  max-width: none !important;
  border-radius: 50% !important;
  display: block !important;
  margin: 0 auto !important;
}
</style>



---
# **Hello and welcome to my website!**

I am a Fulbright Scholar and researcher at Stanford University, where I focus on the transparency and equitable integration of artificial intelligence in healthcare. My research explores how large language models (LLMs) and vision–language models (VLMs) reason in clinical contexts, with particular emphasis on interpretability, safety, and alignment in radiology and medical imaging.

I am also a student at the University of British Columbia where I studied Global Resource Systems. 

I also conduct clinical radiology research in breast imaging and emergency radiology at both Stanford and the University of British Columbia.

Beyond my research, I am interested in journalism and science communication as a way to bridge technical AI research with public understanding. Please check out my research and writing!











*Feel free to [contact me](mailto:sonali3@stanford.edu) if you're interested in collaborating*

Commit message:

Revise introduction and project details in index.md
Updated the introduction to include specific roles and projects.

index.md, after:

---
layout: talk
author_profile: true
classes: wide

---

<style>
/* Widen wrapper no matter which sidebar container is used */
.page__sidebar .author__avatar,
.sidebar .author__avatar,
.author__avatar {
  width: 200px !important;
  max-width: none !important;
  margin: 0 auto !important;
  display: block !important;
}

/* Enlarge the image and keep perfect circle */
.page__sidebar .author__avatar img,
.sidebar .author__avatar img,
.author__avatar img,
img[itemprop="image"].u-photo {
  width: 200px !important;
  height: auto !important;
  max-width: none !important;
  border-radius: 50% !important;
  display: block !important;
  margin: 0 auto !important;
}
</style>



---
# **Hello and welcome to my website!**

I am a Fulbright Scholar and researcher at Stanford University in the Artificial Intelligence and Medical Imaging Center, where I focus on the transparency and equitable integration of artificial intelligence (AI) in healthcare. My research explores how large language models (LLMs) and vision–language models (VLMs) reason in clinical contexts, with particular emphasis on interpretability, safety, and alignment in radiology and medical imaging.

My main project is creating one of the first global human chain-of-thought and spatial datasets. By recording real-time chain-of-thought reasoning, spatial attention patterns, and interpretive pathways during chest X-ray analysis we can ground reasoning in the actual cognitive and visual processes of human radiologists. 

I am also a student at the University of British Columbia where I studied Global Resource Systems where I conduct clinical radiology research in breast imaging. 

Beyond my research, I am interested in journalism and science communication as a way to bridge technical AI research with public understanding. I am the editor and contributer for a commentary series examining the impact of AI on patient care at npj Digital Medicine and freelance journalist for Nature News. Please check out my research and writing!











*Feel free to [contact me](mailto:sonali3@stanford.edu) if you're interested in collaborating*
